(CNN) Do you ache all over? Do you find yourself exhausted even after a full night's sleep? Does just the slightest touch on certain spots on your body make you want to scream in pain?

You could have fibromyalgia, a painful musculoskeletal disease characterized by widespread muscle pain, oversensitivity to common pain, extreme fatigue and sleep, mood and memory problems.

What is fibromyalgia?

Fibromyalgia's name comes from "fibro" (the Latin term for fibrous tissue), "myo" (the Greek word for muscle) and "algia" (the Greek word for pain). According to the National Fibromyalgia Association , an estimated 3% to 6% of the world's population suffers from the condition: about 450 million people, including at least 10 million in the United States.

And finally, red meat doesn't make the MIND diet menu either, but the diet does allow people to eat a serving once a week. A number of studies link red or processed meat consumption with chronic conditions and heart problems.

Sadly, fast food doesn't make the MIND diet either, and neither does fried food. Again the empty calories and fat are not worth breaking your healthy diet.

Sadly, fast food doesn't make the MIND diet either, and neither does fried food. Again the empty calories and fat are not worth breaking your healthy diet.

Cheese is also on the forbidden list. The MIND diet suggests keeping your cheese habit to once a week, if at all. Low fat cheese may be a better option if you can't break the habit, according to earlier studies

The butter-loving French culture won't like this news, but butter ison the MIND diet. You can have a tiny amount a day, but you may want to replace it with the healthier fat in olive oil.

What doesn'tmake the MIND diet is dessert, at least of the pastry variety. Sweets are empty calories and while they make you happy for a moment, the fat and sugar is not good for your health. Avoid them if possible.

When you cook your veggies or low fat poultry and fish, try olive oil. It should be your go-to oil. Earlier studies have shown people have improved cognitive function using it. Considered a healthy fat , it has antioxidants, and can also reduce the risk of heart disease and has been shown to prevent the spread of cancer cells, earlier studies show.

A serving a day of other vegetables is also important. Vegetables provide nutrients your body needs, they are naturally low in fat and are a good source of fiber. Side benefit : the vitamin A in vegetables keeps your skin looking healthy and younger.

Blueberries, strawberries and other berry family members make the MIND diet with a suggested two servings a week. A rich source of antioxidents and flavonoids, blueberries have been shown to improve memory, cognition and spatial memory, according to earlier studies.

You knew leafy greens were on the MIND menu. Try six servings a week. Greens are good for your vascular health, earlier studies show. They're also good for your digestion.

Eat three servings of beans a week. Beans are a good source of fiber which is important for digestion and also help you feel full, meaning you won't want to eat as much. A study in Japan found high soy bean consumption was associated with a lower incident of dementia and long life.

Snacking is allowed on the MIND diet. It suggests eating nuts five times a week. Eating pistachios has been shown to lower blood pressure in some people . Peanuts are known to be a good source of resveratrol, a compound with antioxidants that help brain and heart health, earlier studies show.

Poultry is on the MIND diet menu, two or more servings a week. Stick with baked, grilled or broiled, but skip the fried.

Poultry is on the MIND diet menu, two or more servings a week. Stick with baked, grilled or broiled, but skip the fried.

A glass of wine a day is allowed on the MIND diet. Wine is a good source of antioxidants, which is also good for your heart health. Resveratol in red wine may also help prevent damage to blood vessels.

Carbs are allowed on this diet, particularly of the whole grain variety. You should have three servings a day. Earlier studies have shown a connection between high fiber consumption and living a long life

The MIND diet suggests eating at least one serving of fish a week. In contrast, the Mediterranean diet suggests eating more like 2-3 servings a week. Salmon, considered a "superfood," gives you a high dose of omega-3 fatty acids which studies show lower the risk of heart disease and fight inflammation. Earlier studies showed it also reduces anxiety.

The diet, driven by medical research, is a hybrid of the Mediterranean and DASH diets, both of which have been shown to have a positive impact on full body and brain health. The MIND diet may be a little bit simpler to follow than the other two as you have to eat less fruit and fish. In an observational study, people who stuck closest to eating the MIND diet saw a 53% lower risk of developing Alzheimer's , even people who ate the MIND diet most (instead of "all") of the time saw a 35% reduction in developing the disease. It's a result that is considered "significant."

The Mediterranean-DASH Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay, known as the MIND diet, is a brain-friendly eating plan developed by researchers at Rush University in Chicago and Harvard's School of Public Health in Boston. Since most people experience some kind of memory loss as they age, even if they don't suffer from Alzheimer's, it's not a bad diet for anyone who hopes to live long into old age.

The Mediterranean-DASH Intervention for Neurodegenerative Delay, known as the MIND diet, is a brain-friendly eating plan developed by researchers at Rush University in Chicago and Harvard's School of Public Health in Boston. Since most people experience some kind of memory loss as they age, even if they don't suffer from Alzheimer's, it's not a bad diet for anyone who hopes to live long into old age.

An estimated 47 million people globally have Alzheimer's disease, and that number is projected to triple by 2050. There is no cure or real treatment, but studies show and according to the Alzheimer's Association, there are some things you can do to keep memory loss at bay: exercise, education, not smoking, reducing the impact of chronic conditions such as diabetes, getting adequate sleep, staying socially engaged, learning new things, taking care of your mental health and eating a healthy diet. One effort in particular, diet, is getting some renewed interest from scientists.

An estimated 47 million people globally have Alzheimer's disease, and that number is projected to triple by 2050. There is no cure or real treatment, but studies show and according to the Alzheimer's Association, there are some things you can do to keep memory loss at bay: exercise, education, not smoking, reducing the impact of chronic conditions such as diabetes, getting adequate sleep, staying socially engaged, learning new things, taking care of your mental health and eating a healthy diet. One effort in particular, diet, is getting some renewed interest from scientists.

Fibromyalgia is considered a rheumatic disease like arthritis because it impairs joints and soft fibrous tissues like muscles, ligaments and tendons. But fibromyalgia is not a true form of arthritis, as it doesn't cause damage to those muscles and joints.

Instead, the disease wreaks havoc with the body's pain centers, causing muscle stiffness and pain, intense fatigue, difficulty sleeping, migraines and terrible memory and concentration issues, often known as "fibro-fog."

What's fibromyalgia feel like?

Those who struggle with fibromyalgia say the muscle and tissue pain can include a deep, achy misery, an unbearable throbbing or stabbing, or an intense burning sensation. Often, the pain occurs in muscle nodules, or myofascial trigger points, causing restricted movement and full-body agony.

"I used to say it was like a blowtorch," said Lynne Matallana, co-founder of the National Fibromyalgia Association. She began the advocacy group in 1997 after years of suffering from chronic pain.

"The pain radiates out so much that your skin, your hair, your nails, everything hurts. Anything that touches you hurts you. You can't wear jewelry; you can't wear anything with a collar or rough texture. I used to put pillows at the bottom of my bed so the sheets wouldn't touch my legs."

Overwhelming fatigue is another classic symptom. Between the pain and the exhaustion, says Matallana, she often felt despair.

"You feel like you can't move, you can't think, and time seems to last forever and ever," she explained. "You lose sense of the fact that you could be better."

Fibromyalgia suffers often have sleep issues, such as restless leg syndrome, and struggle with frequent sleep disruptions. The National Sleep Foundation calls the connection a "double-edged sword: the pain makes sleep more difficult and sleep deprivation exacerbates pain."

Because both pain and exhaustion are invisible, it's often hard for anyone with fibromyalgia to convince family and friends of the extent of their misery. To make matters worse, it wasn't long ago that many doctors thought fibromyalgia was psychosomatic. Sad stories of going from doctor to doctor only to be told that the pain and fatigue are "all in your head" are common among patients; as are stories of losing marriages, relatives and friends who could not understand the debilitation that the disease can cause.

"Doctors didn't accept it; patients didn't know what was wrong with them," Matallana said, describing what having fibromyalgia was like a decade or so ago. "Everyone felt so hopeless. I did a lot of suicide prevention counseling in the beginning of my work with the foundation.

"I always believed that if you went to a health care provider, they would have an answer for you. I didn't realize there are things they just didn't understand," she added, explaining that many doctors wanted to help but didn't know how.

"What I would often hear is, 'We don't believe it's being caused by anything other than stress or whatever. You need to change your lifestyle.' " It was like they were saying, "I don't know what to do to help you, so go do this, so I can take care of a patient I know how to help."

"So I quit work, I stayed at home, I tried to exercise and reduce stress," Matallana said, "but we didn't know enough about how to put those actions into a workable plan that would slowly help me get better."

What causes fibromyalgia?

Fibro can strike at any time. Symptoms often begin after a traumatic physical event, such as a car accident, surgery, even infection. Flu viruses, herpes simplex, the Epstein-Barr virus and hepatitis B and C may contribute to the onset of fibromyalgia.

Psychological or emotional stress such as abuse, the loss of a parent or going to war can also trigger the disease. A recent study in Finland found that being exposed to family trauma such as alcohol and financial problems, chronic illness and depression or divorce while growing up was associated with a diagnosis of fibromyalgia later in life.

There's even a link between sleep disorders and fibromyalgia. A study in Norway found that women older than 45 with frequent sleep issues had five times the risk of developing fibromyalgia than sound sleepers.

Photos: Tips for better sleep Setting an alarm might be the only thing that helps you get up in the morning, but try setting one at night to remind you when it's time to go to bed. Click through our gallery for other tips for better sleep. Hide Caption 1 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Did you know that having warm feet can help you sleep? Pull on a pair of socks before bed to speed up how quickly you'll fall asleep. Hide Caption 2 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Even the smallest amount of light can disrupt your sleep patterns. Keep your bedroom as dark as possible for the best night's sleep. Hide Caption 3 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Exercise regularly? You'll sleep better. Even a few minutes of physical activity a day can help. Hide Caption 4 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Paint your bedroom a tranquil color to make your room a restful one. Hide Caption 5 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Naps, when limited to 30 minutes and not too close to bedtime, won't interrupt your nightly sleep routine. Hide Caption 6 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Yoga can help you wind down at the end of the day and calm your mind, which also slows your breathing and heart rate for better sleep. Hide Caption 7 of 8 Photos: Tips for better sleep Get some sunlight first thing in the morning. It triggers your brain to stay awake and alert early in the day and helps you ease into sleep a little earlier at night. Hide Caption 8 of 8

The National Institutes of Health says that between 80% and 90% of those diagnosed with the disease are women, but no one really understands why.

One theory is that lower levels of serotonin, a brain transmitter that helps regulate pain, may contribute to the development of fibromyalgia. Men make more serotonin than women, which some feel could explain the gender gap.

Another theory links female hormones and menopause to the disorder, but both of these are unproved.

If you have other arthritis-related conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis or lupus, your risk of getting fibromyalgia is higher. There's also a familial connection, so if your mother has fibromyalgia, you're more likely to contract the disease.

Other conditions such as irritable bowel syndrome, painful bladder syndrome, anxiety, depression and temporomandibular joint disorder (or TMJ) often go hand in hand with fibromyalgia, as do several sleep disorders such as restless leg syndrome and sleep apnea.

Today, researchers believe that the bombardment of nerve pain that occurs in fibromyalgia may even alter the brain. Some feel that alteration could be related to abnormal levels of certain chemicals in the brain (like serotonin), or perhaps how blood flows through the brain. A study last year found that spinal fluid and plasma from people with fibromyalgia contained significantly higher levels of inflammatory chemicals, which could trigger swelling and pain.

Pain receptors in the body become hypersenstive with fibromyalgia

Scientists are also looking into the link between damaged peripheral nerves -- the small nerves of the body outside the brain and spinal cord -- and the chronic pain of fibromyalgia. One study found "withered or sparse nerve endings" in people with fibromyalgia, and two others found "small-fiber" nerve damage in those with the disease.

Regardless of the cause, the result is that the central nervous system alters the way it processes pain messages throughout the body. Then, the theory goes, the pain receptors in the body develop a type of "pain memory," making them oversensitive and over-reactive to any degree of pain.

"As time went on, I also described the pain as a sort of poison or acid going through my veins," Matallana said. "It is almost like you are slowly being drained of anything in you that would give you the strength to get better and help the pain go away."

How do I know if I have fibromyalgia?

It can take a long time to get a diagnosis for fibromyalgia. There is no test. You can't tell from an X-ray or blood test. Your doctor must consider the entire group of symptoms: pain, fatigue, sleep disturbances, cognitive dysfunction, mood disturbances, tenderness, stiffness and functional impairment.

Because myriad other conditions share symptoms, doctors often need to rule out other diseases before a diagnosis of fibromyalgia can occur. You will probably be screened for neurological disorders such as multiple sclerosis and myasthenia gravis, an autoimmune disease that leads to muscle weakness, as well as depression and anxiety.

A blood test called FM/a can help distinguish fibromyalgia from other rheumatic diseases like Sjogren's syndrome, rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. A complete blood count will help rule out thyroid disorders, anemia and vitamin deficiencies that can cause fatigue and sleep problems.

Tender trigger points of fibromyalgia, no longer used for a definitative diagnosis.

For many years, fibromyalgia was diagnosed by pressing firmly on 18 typical trigger points or small patches of tightly contracted muscle tissue. If 11 or more of those trigger points were painful, the person had fibromyalgia.

That's no longer recommended. Tender spots come and go, and doctors were unsure of how hard to press. You may still experience a test like that, but since 2010, it's no longer the gold standard for diagnosis.

The American College of Rheumatology now says that a diagnosis of fibromyalgia will be given if pain has lasted more than three months, with no other underlying medical condition, and is widespread, which means it must occur on both sides of the body and above and below the waist.

Because of the many challenges in diagnosing fibromyalgia, finding a doctor with experience in separating it from other diseases is key. An experienced rheumatologist -- a doctor who specializes in musculoskeletal and autoimmune disorders -- will be the most successful at diagnosing fibromyalgia.

How is fibromyalgia treated?

Widespread pain is often treated with over-the-counter pain relievers, but narcotics are not recommended, as they can increase pain over time.

In 2004, the US Food and Drug Administration approved the first drug for fibromyalgia. Pregabalin appears to work by calming overactive nerves. Unfortunately, it has two significant side effects, dizziness and sleepiness, that might dissipate over time.

The agency has since approved two more drugs: duloxetine is approved for anxiety, depression and neuropathic nerve pain; milnacipran is another antidepressant approved for fibromyalgia.

While those drugs can help some with the disease, many find little relief from medication.

Join the conversation See the latest news and share your comments with CNN Health on Facebook and Twitter.

Patients are encouraged to turn to physical and occupational therapy to improve muscle strength and flexibility. Stress can also be lowered via yoga, tai chi, meditation and counseling. Massage can be helpful, as it relaxes muscles, reduces stress and improves range of motion in muscles and joints.

Science has joined in the search for alternative treatments: the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases has a number of studies underway into the roles of exercise, behavioral therapy and sleep interventions.

"We now know that pain can be learned," Matallana said. "A lot of us with a genetic predisposition, we were trying to do it all, and we wore ourselves down. We didn't eat well, didn't exercise, didn't meditate and take time for ourselves. We overstressed the whole system.

"Fibromyalgia is when you have pushed your system beyond the point it can function, and like a computer, sometimes you have to reboot."