Jae C. Hong/Associated Press

Floyd Mayweather Jr. expects to make over $300 million for fighting Conor McGregor on Aug. 26.

Appearing on Showtime's All Access: Mayweather vs. McGregor, Money said he believes he can trump the mammoth payout he earned for his May 2015 superfight against Manny Pacquiao.

"I mean, am I the highest-paid athlete out there? And just coming back? We not talking about no contract," Mayweather said, according to TMZ Sports. "We not talking about no contract for no four years, or no contract for no five years. I can do it in 36 minutes. $300 (million) or better. In 36 minutes."

Lonzo Ball Proves He’s a Big Baller by Winning Summer League MVP Will Anyone Catch the Astros or Dodgers in the Second Half? Watch Gold Medalist Allyson Felix Surprise Gatorade Player of the Year Beer Baths to Selfies: How Cavs and Dubs Celebrated Their Way Back to NBA Finals Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: No One Has More at Stake Than Kevin Durant The Future of Baseball Is Bright in New York with Young Stars Conforto and Judge Kyrie Irving Makes Trick Play in Game 4 Warriors Make History by Sweeping Their Way to Finals Kevin Durant Gets the Double Block Will Warriors Bust Out the Brooms for Historic Sweep of Spurs in Game 4? Can Celtics Bounce Back to Avoid Short Eastern Conference Finals vs. Cavaliers? Howard Beck NBA Spotlight: Can We Just Fast-Forward to the Finals Already? Celtics and Game 7s Have a Lot of History...Which Isn't Good for Wizards Night in the NBA: Rockets & Wizards Even It Up Night in the NBA: Tempers Flare in D.C. Howard Beck's NBA Spotlight: MVP Doesn't Matter, LeBron Still Best Player Alive Welcome to the Diaper Derby: the High-Stakes Races Taking Over NBA Games Have LeBron James, Cavaliers Sealed Raptors Playoff Fate After Just One Game? The Night in the NBA: Rockets Light Up Spurs with 22 3-pointers; Cavs Coast Past Raptors The Night in the NBA: Rockets Bounce Thunder, Jazz Down Clips and Spurs Stop Gri Right Arrow Icon

The conditions of the purse split between Mayweather and McGregor won't be made public according to the terms of the confidentiality agreement both parties signed, but it stands to reason Mayweather could flirt with $300 million if the fight sells well.

However, that doesn't mean he will hit that audacious monetary milestone.

ESPN.com's Darren Rovell and Dan Rafael reported Mayweather raked in between $220 million and $230 million for fighting Pacquiao—a figure that was buoyed by $455 million in pay-per-view sales.

In his latest projection, Rovell anticipated the fight would gross just north of $606 million, which would leave it $17 million behind the total Mayweather and Pacquiao hit two years ago.