HOLIDAY, Fla. - Pasco Sheriff's detectives have arrested a now three-time killer after he called deputies to confess to murdering his third victim Wednesday morning in Holiday.



Pasco County deputies responded to the 3500 block of Trask Drive around 3:15 a.m. Wednesday morning after a call came in reporting an aggravated battery. When deputies arrived, a victim was discovered at the residence with injuries. The victim, later identified as 42-year-old Denise Cook, died on scene.



Detectives determined that Cook, Warren Birkbeck and an 85-year-old woman all lived together. Detectives say that Birkbeck went into Cook's room, stabbed her multiple times, then went into the room of the 85-year-old woman and told her he stabbed Cook and believed that Cook was dead.



The two of them later called 911. On the 911 call, Birkbeck confessed to the crime, telling police that he stabbed Cook.



According to the arrest affidavit, Birkbeck told the 911 operator, "I killed the girl because she's nothing but a cheating b****... I've just had it. I just flipped out tonight and I ended up killing her."



Later in custody, Birkbeck told deputies that he was upset with Cook because he overheard her on the phone talking to a male. Birkbeck said that he was in love with Cook and that she knew he loved her but did not feel the same way. Birkbeck said he confronted Cook in her bedroom but she yelled at him to get out, he then went to the kitchen and grabbed a knife before returning to the bedroom and killing her.



When asked why he killed her, Birkbeck stated, "I just have a hard time being rejected."



According to Pasco County Sheriff Chris Nocco, Birkbeck has a history of killing people.



"No other way to say it, he's a killer," the Sheriff stated in a press conference.



In 1963, Birkbeck was charged and convicted of Manslaughter in Massachusetts. In 1999, he was convicted of second-degree murder in New Hampshire. He was released from prison in 2015 and was sentenced to probation until 2029.



Birkbeck moved to Florida two years ago where he lived next door to the location of the homicide. He had resided in that home with his sister until she passed away. At that point, he moved into the house with Cook and the 85-year-old woman.



Birkbeck was arrested and confessed once again when he was in police custody.