London (CNN) Have you ever dreamed of living like a queen? The life of Britain's Queen Elizabeth II may be more accessible than you think.

You can buy gloves like those that grace the Royal wave, dine on sausages that she particularly favors or dream of being a monarch as you sleep in luxury bed linen, just like hers.

The British monarch's favored goods and services are recognized with a Royal Warrant , the ultimate mark of quality. Hundreds of companies and individuals are today entitled to display the coveted crest of working "by appointment to HM The Queen."

Most are listed by The Royal Warrant Association, gatekeepers to the Royal Household, and each one gives an insight into life behind palace walls.

From pest control to sausages

Not all of those goods and services are glamorous, it has to be said. There are rat-catchers, among several pest-control contractors, and a company that disposes of "liquid sludge." It seems even Royal residences have such problems.

But they all require the highest standards in serving the monarch and upholding the luxury befitting a royal household.

There are conservators, restorers and stonemasons to preserve treasures painted, sculpted and carved in centuries past. There are also jewelers, goldsmiths and silversmiths.

Every conceivable trade is among the Royal Warrant holders. You can brave the elements in Burberry 's iconic waterproof trench-coat, the company is on the list as The Queen's "Weatherproofers." You can hang your clothes with luxury padded and velvet hangers made by H&L Russel, housewares specialists, listed as "Manufacturers of Garment Hangers."

When it comes to food, a monarch does not necessarily dine only on truffles and caviar.

Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth is the longest-reigning monarch in British history. Look back at moments from her life so far. Hide Caption 1 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Elizabeth was born April 21, 1926, in London. She is held here by her mother, Elizabeth. Her father would later become King George VI. Hide Caption 2 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Princess Elizabeth in 1928. Hide Caption 3 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Princess Elizabeth is seen with her uncle Edward, Prince of Wales, during a visit to Balmoral, Scotland, in September 1933. He would go on to become King Edward VIII in 1936. But when he abdicated later that year, Elizabeth's father became King and she became heir presumptive. Hide Caption 4 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Princess Elizabeth is seen in the Duchess' box during a pantomime act at London's Lyceum Theater in February 1935. Hide Caption 5 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II From left, Princess Elizabeth, King George VI, Queen Elizabeth and Princess Margaret wave to the crowd from the Royal Balcony of Buckingham Palace on June 22, 1939. Hide Caption 6 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II A 14-year-old Princess Elizabeth, right, sits next to her sister for a radio broadcast on October 13, 1940. On the broadcast, her first, she said that England's children were full of cheerfulness and courage. Hide Caption 7 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Princess Elizabeth shakes hands with an officer of the Grenadier Guards on May 29, 1942. King George VI made Elizabeth an honorary colonel in the Royal Army regiment. Hide Caption 8 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Princess Elizabeth, right, and Princess Margaret wear summer dresses circa 1942. Hide Caption 9 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II With the Drakensberg Mountains behind her, Princess Elizabeth sits in South Africa's Natal National Park on April 21, 1947, her 21st birthday. Hide Caption 10 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II This portrait of the British royal family was taken in July 1947, after Princess Elizabeth, far left, got engaged to Prince Philip of Greece, a lieutenant in the British Navy. He is second from left. To his left are Queen Elizabeth, King George VI and Princess Margaret. Hide Caption 11 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Royal Wedding Party waves from the balcony of Buckingham Palace on November 20, 1947. After becoming a British citizen and renouncing his Greek title, Philip became His Royal Highness Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. His wife became the Duchess of Edinburgh. Hide Caption 12 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Princess Elizabeth smiles in March 1950 as she arrives to a state banquet at the French Embassy in London's Kensington Palace Gardens. Hide Caption 13 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Elizabeth ascended to the throne in February 1952, when her father died of lung cancer. Here, the new Queen leaves the Royal Archers Hall in Edinburgh after a ball in June 1952. It was the first function she attended as Queen following her father's death. Hide Caption 14 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth II walks to the altar during her coronation ceremony on June 2, 1953. Hide Caption 15 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth II on the balcony of Melbourne's Government House, during her tour of Australia in March 1954. Hide Caption 16 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II From left, Princess Margaret, Queen Elizabeth II and the Queen Mother visit Epsom Downs Racecourse in June 1958. Hide Caption 17 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Queen holds her son Prince Andrew while his sister, Princess Anne, watches during a family holiday at Scotland's Balmoral Castle in September 1960. Hide Caption 18 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth II is seen during the State Opening of Parliament in April 1966. Hide Caption 19 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth II with her oldest son, Prince Charles, in 1969. Hide Caption 20 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Prince Charles adjusts his coronet during his investiture ceremony as Prince of Wales in 1969. Hide Caption 21 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip wave from a plane ramp shortly before taking off from Tokyo in May 1975. Hide Caption 22 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth II takes a portrait at Windsor Castle for her 50th birthday on April 21, 1976. Hide Caption 23 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Queen meets the crowds during her royal tour of New Zealand in 1977. Hide Caption 24 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Queen stands next to Prince Charles as he kisses his new bride, Princess Diana, on their wedding day July 29, 1981. Hide Caption 25 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth II takes pictures of her husband during a horse show in Windsor, England, on May 16, 1982. Hide Caption 26 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Queen reacts to an elephant as she tours a charity event in London's Hyde Park in June 1987. Hide Caption 27 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth II fires a rifle during a visit to the Army Rifle Association at Bisley, England, in July 1993. Hide Caption 28 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II While at Buckingham Palace, Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip view the floral tributes to Princess Diana after her tragic death in 1997. Hide Caption 29 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Queen addresses the nation on the night before Princess Diana's funeral in 1997. Hide Caption 30 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Prince Charles looks back at his mother after wedding Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, in April 2005. Hide Caption 31 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip leave London's St. Paul's Cathedral on October 9, 2009, following a commemoration service to mark the end of combat operations in Iraq. Hide Caption 32 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Queen, second from right, greets a crowd from the balcony of Buckingham Palace on April 29, 2011. Her grandson Prince William, third from left, had just married Catherine Middleton. Hide Caption 33 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth II drives her Range Rover as she attends the Windsor Horse Show in May 2011. Hide Caption 34 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Queen's signature is seen in the visitors book at Aras An Uachtarain, the Irish President's official residence in Dublin, Ireland, in May 2011. Hide Caption 35 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Flags are waved as Queen Elizabeth II leaves St. Paul's Cathedral following its 300th anniversary service in June 2011. Hide Caption 36 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Madame Tussauds London reveals a wax figure of the Queen in May 2012. Hide Caption 37 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Prince Charles kisses his mother's hand on stage as singer Paul McCartney, far right, looks on at the Diamond Jubilee concert held June 4, 2012, at Buckingham Palace. The Diamond Jubilee celebrations marked Elizabeth's 60th anniversary as Queen. Hide Caption 38 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Queen speaks at a reception for members of the International Olympic Committee on July 23, 2012. Hide Caption 39 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Queen tours the Foreign and Commonwealth Office in London in December 2012. Hide Caption 40 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II A boy in Belfast, Northern Ireland, takes a selfie in front of the Queen in June 2014. Hide Caption 41 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Queen enters the Great Hall at Edinburgh Castle after attending a commemorative service for the Scottish National War Memorial in July 2014. Hide Caption 42 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Queen waits to give her speech during the State Opening of Parliament on May 27, 2015. Hide Caption 43 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The Queen sits at a desk in Buckingham Palace in July 2015. Hide Caption 44 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II The British monarch greets the public after attending church services in February 2016 Hide Caption 45 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Prince George gets a boost from some foam blocks for a special family photo. The portrait, featuring the four generations of the House of Windsor, was commissioned by the Royal Mail and will be featured on a series of stamps to commemorate the Queen's 90th birthday. Hide Caption 46 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth II acknowledges the crowd as she celebrates her 90th birthday in Windsor, England, on April 21, 2016. Hide Caption 47 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II On June 10, 2016, Buckingham Palace released a new official photograph to mark the Queen's 90th birthday. It shows her with Prince Philip and was taken at Windsor Castle just after Easter. Hide Caption 48 of 49 Photos: The life of Queen Elizabeth II This 2014 portrait of Queen Elizabeth II was reissued on February 6, 2017 to celebrate her Sapphire Anniversary, marking 65 years since she ascended to the throne following her father's death in 1952. Hide Caption 49 of 49

While the Queen's favored sausages include those made by Musk's, some of her eggs come from Noble Foods, leading suppliers to major retailers. She enjoys coffee from H R Higgins -- a third-generation family business with a shop in Mayfair.

Grantees range from individual artisans to multinational companies. Many of them, such as John Lewis (Suppliers of Haberdashery and Household Goods) or Jeyes (Manufacturers of Hygiene Products), are also favorites with the British public.

Most companies are local, but there are some are overseas brands, including Elizabeth Arden, the American cosmetics firm.

One of the last remaining powers

Founded in 1946, Cornelia James Ltd. got the Royal Warrant in 1979 for supplying gloves to the Queen. They made the "going-away gloves" for the then Princess Elizabeth following her marriage to Prince Philip.

The history of the Royal Warrant dates back to medieval times. Documents record King Henry II granting one to the Weavers' Company in 1155.

Today, a committee of the Royal Household makes recommendations, but all final decisions are signed off by the grantor -- whether the Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh or the Prince of Wales.

As a personal decision made by them rather than Parliament, it is one of the last remaining powers of the monarchy.

The warrants are awarded primarily to tradespeople. Professional services -- lawyers, accountants and doctors, for example -- do not qualify.

Such is the honor of a Royal Warrant that the Association receives daily inquiries from hopeful companies. But there has to be an established trading relationship -- five years' worth of trade within the past seven, an acknowledgment that some things may not be required every year.

The warrant is only granted initially for up to five years, reviewed in the year before it is due to expire. It can then be re-granted.

Milborrow chimney sweeps

The Royal Warrants relate to everything that a home, a country estate, a restaurant, a hotel and an office would need, apart from the ceremonial side.

Chimney-sweeps are among the valued tradesmen. Milborrow , a family business in Sussex, services Windsor Castle, Buckingham Palace and Clarence House, among other Royal residences.

Ben Giddings of Milborrow says that a Royal Warrant, as a mark of trust, makes a big difference to their business in reaching other clients: "There's no higher accreditation or accolade that a company could be awarded than to have the seal of approval from the Royal Family."