Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places Archaeologists unearthed a well-preserved ancient Roman neighborhood in the suburb of Sainte-Colombe in southeastern France. They were excavating a site where three new buildings were planned. Hide Caption 1 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places Earlier this summer, the charred remains of a lavish third-century home are the most recent discovery found during the construction of Rome's new metro line. Hide Caption 2 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places This discovery is particularly interesting because the fire that destroyed the house left some things intact, including wooden beams that, under normal circumstances, would have decayed ages ago. Hide Caption 3 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places Items from ancient times are found more often than you might think. In September 2015, British archaeologists discovered a small but prehistoric site that they say provides a genuine snapshot of life in the Bronze Age, some 3000 years ago. Hide Caption 4 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places The earliest known stone copy of the Ten Commandments sold at auction in Beverly Hills in 2016 for $850,000. Hide Caption 5 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places The stone was first uncovered in 1913. Hide Caption 6 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places "The tablet's significance is testament to the deep roots and enduring power of the Commandments that still form the basis of three of the world's great religions: Judaism, Christianity and Islam," says David Michaels, director of ancient coins for Heritage Auctions , who will be conducting the sale. Hide Caption 7 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places Specialists at Mossgreen auctions in Australia discovered this Ming dynasty banknote hidden inside the head of this 14th century Buddhist carving. The wooden sculpture represents the head of a Luohan -- an enlightened person who has reached Nirvana in Buddhist culture. Hide Caption 8 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places Its face value was worth roughly $98 at the time of its circulation and the 700-year-old banknote is believed to have been handmade during China's Ming dynasty. Together, the banknote and sculpture are expected to fetch between $30,000 to $45,000 at auction. Hide Caption 9 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places After studying the banknote and carving details, art specialists were able to estimate the sculpture's age, which dates back to China's Hongwu period in the 14th century. Hide Caption 10 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places Mossgreen specialists believe this is the first time a Ming dynasty banknote has been found inside a wooden Buddhist sculpture. They say it's more common to find relics and semi-precious stones left by monks inside Buddhist sculptures. Hide Caption 11 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places Ten ancient Roman and Ottoman coins were recently discovered in castle ruins in Okinawa, Japan . This image shows the front of one of the Roman coins. Hide Caption 12 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places "I couldn't believe they'd found coins from the Roman empire in Kasturen castle," archiologist Hiroyuki Miyagi, from Okinawa International University, told CNN. This is the front of one of the Ottoman coins. Hide Caption 13 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places Archaeologists recently unearthed a rare 2,000 year old Roman coin during a scientific dig in Jerusalem. The gold coin features the face of Emperor Nero and was likely struck in 56-57 AD. Hide Caption 14 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places In August 2016, the world's largest pearl was discovered under a bed in the Philippines, where it had lain forgotten for over ten years. Hide Caption 15 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places This 1,109 carat, tennis ball-sized diamond made headlines in November 2015 when it was pulled out of the Karowe Mine, in Botswana, by Canadian company Lucara Diamond Corp. Hide Caption 16 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places In May 2016, divers discovered a 1,600-year-old shipwreck while swimming the ancient Roman port of Caesarea. These rare bronze artifacts were recovered from the ship. Hide Caption 17 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places Over 1,300 pounds (590 kg) of bronze Roman coins dating to the 3rd century A.D. were unearthed in April 2016 by construction workers digging a trench in Spain. Hide Caption 18 of 20

Photos: Discovered: Incredible treasures found in unexpected places In January 2016, over 4,000 Roman coins were discovered by a fruit and vegetable farmer on a molehill in his cherry orchard in Switzerland. Hide Caption 19 of 20