NEW YORK – JULY 10, 2017 — FOX News Channel (FNC) has signed former White House press secretary Ari Fleischer to a contributor role, announced Jay Wallace, President of News. In this role, effective immediately, he will offer strategic communications and political analysis across FNC and FOX Business Network’s (FBN) daytime and primetime programming.

Mr. Fleischer is currently the president of Ari Fleischer Communications and Ari Fleischer Sports Communications, a company that offers strategic advice and communications training to sports organizations, athletes and various corporations.

In making the announcement, Wallace said, “Ari’s decades of experience in political communication and immense knowledge of the White House and its interactions with the press will add valuable insight to our programming.”

Mr. Fleischer added, “I very much look forward to joining FOX and to sharing my perspective on national, political and governmental events. When it comes to coverage and analysis of Washington, FOX has a powerful and important voice and I’m proud to join them.”

Previously, Mr. Fleischer served as the White House press secretary to former President George W. Bush from 2001 to 2003. During that historic period, Mr. Fleischer was the primary spokesperson during the presidential recount, September 11th, two wars and an anthrax attack. Prior to joining his administration, Mr. Fleischer held the position of senior communications adviser and spokesman for Bush’s presidential campaign beginning in 1999.

Before joining Bush’s campaign for president, Mr. Fleischer was the national spokesman for Elizabeth Dole’s (R) presidential campaign during the 2000 election primary season. He previously worked as the communications director on the House Committee on Ways and Means after Republicans won the majority in Congress in 1994 and served as press secretary to Sen. Pete Domenici (R-NM) from 1989 to 1994.

A graduate of Middlebury College in Vermont, Mr. Fleischer began his political career working as a press secretary on the congressional campaign of New York Republican candidate Jon Fossel and later was hired as press secretary to Rep. Norman Lent (R-NY). He is also the author of the New York Times bestseller, “Taking Heat: The President, the Press and My Years in the White House.”

FOX News Channel (FNC) is a 24-hour all-encompassing news service dedicated to delivering breaking news as well as political and business news. The number one network in cable, FNC has been the most-watched television news channel for more than 15 years and according to a Suffolk University/USA Today poll, is the most-trusted television news source in the country. Owned by 21st Century Fox, FNC is available in 90 million homes and dominates the cable news landscape, routinely notching the top ten programs in the genre.

###

FOX News Media Contact:

Carly Shanahan/212-301-3851