NEW YORK – JUNE 29, 2017 — FOX News Channel (FNC) has re-signed Kimberly Guilfoyle to a long-term deal where she will continue as co-host of The Five (weeknights at 9PM/ET), announced Suzanne Scott, president of programming for the network.

In making the announcement, Scott said, “Throughout the past decade, Kimberly has served as a popular commentator here at Fox News. She’s a huge asset to The Five and undoubtedly contributed to making the program a notable success.”

Guilfoyle added, “I’m excited to remain at Fox News Channel, a place I have called home for many years, and to continue my role as co-host of The Five. I very much look forward to what lies ahead.”

As co-host of The Five (9-10PM/ET), Guilfoyle is part of a roundtable ensemble of FNC personalities who discuss, debate and even debunk the top news stories of the day. She is an original cast member who helped launch the program in 2011. Since The Five’s debut in the 9PM/ET timeslot, the show has averaged 2.5 million in total viewers and 510,000 in the 25-54 demographic, according to Nielsen Media Research. Additionally, The Five is up 16% with Adults 25-54 compared to the same time period last year and remains in the top four rated cable news programs overall, ranking ahead of MSNBC’s primetime program The Last Word with Lawrence O’Donnell and CNN’s Anderson Cooper 360.

Guilfoyle joined the network as a legal analyst in 2006 and appears regularly on Hannity, among other FNC & FOX Business Network (FBN) programs. Since 2009, she has both contributed to and hosted FNC’s New Year’s Eve special, All-American New Year live from Times Square in New York City.

Prior to joining FNC, Guilfoyle served as a legal analyst for ABC News and has covered major legal cases involving, O.J. Simpson, Scott Peterson, JonBenet Ramsey, Natalee Holloway, Kobe Bryant and Michael Jackson.

Before launching her career in television, Guilfoyle held the role as assistant district attorney at the San Francisco and Los Angeles District Attorney’s Offices and was co-prosecutor in the case “People v. Noel and Knoller,” a second-degree murder trial involving dog mauling, which received national and international attention. She also served as former First Lady of San Francisco from 2003 through 2005. Additionally, Guilfoyle is the author of the national best seller “Making the Case: How to Be Your Own Best Advocate.”

FOX News Channel (FNC) is a 24-hour all-encompassing news service dedicated to delivering breaking news as well as political and business news. A top five cable network, FNC has been the most-watched news channel in the country for 15 years and according to a Suffolk University/USA Today poll, is the most trusted television news source in the country. Owned by 21st Century Fox, FNC is available in 90 million homes and dominates the cable news landscape, routinely notching the top ten programs in the genre.

###

FOX News Media Contact:

Jaclyn Giuliano/212.301.3436