Audio clip: Listen to audio clip.

Anthony Scaramucci is gone from his position as Communications Director because, the White House claimed in a Monday statement, Scaramucci "felt it was best to give Chief of Staff John Kelly a clean slate and the ability to build his own team." The truth is more likely found in something Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in her Monday afternoon press briefing. "General Kelly has the full authority to operate within the White House, and all staff will report to him," she said. That cuts against both Scaramucci's public pronouncement that he answered to the president and the impression he left that his relationship with the Donald Trump was more personal and closer than the average White House aide. But as the New York Times reported, Kelly requested Scaramucci be let go, and that was that. Former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich joined the Todd Starnes Show today to discuss this latest staffing shakeup and what it means for President Trump's White House.

Newt Gingrich on if it was a good move for President Trump to get rid of Anthony Scaramucci:

I think after the New Yorker interview he had no choice. That was such an absurdity that I just don't see how it could have survived it, and I think it was a very powerful, direct move by General Kelly to communicate who's in charge. So I think it all worked out from Trump's standpoint very well. I feel sorry for Scaramucci, but he just behaved in ways that are just literally unacceptable and I wouldn't want to work with a colleague who said those kinds of things.

Newt Gingrich on who he thinks is the best person to replace Scaramucci as Communications Director:

I think Laura Ingraham would be a possibility. I think Kellyanne Conway would be a possibility. There are a number of people in the private sector who could do a great job, including maybe some people who are heads of pretty big PR firms. You know they are folks who, the Communications Director should not be the day-to-day warrior going in with the press. The Communications Director should be looking at three and six months out, where do we want to position the President? How do we get the President's program adopted? That sort of thing.

Newt Gingrich on if he is hopeful that republicans can repeal Obamacare:

Yeah I think they probably need to break it up into six or seven bites and start passing bills that are popular and that deal with specific components of the health system. And if they do it right, they'll get a fair number of democratic votes. You can't ask the democrats to vote symbolically to repeal Obamacare, but you can ask them to vote for a series of improvements at the end of which you have functionally, you know, replaced Obamacare.

Newt Gingrich on if the level of turmoil in the White House is normal at this stage in the game:

Well Reagan had four chiefs of staff in his presidency, Bill Clinton had five, so it is not unusual to have turnover. General Kelly is a very disciplined, orderly person. He's a very prestigious person, he's a very mature leader, and I suspect he's going to bring tremendous efficiency and order to the White House. And I think that that's certainly the way he's been greeted at the White House, so far people. I think are relieved. Reince Priebus was put in an almost impossible situation because he never had the full authority of a Chief of Staff, he was always one out of six people who had real authority, and that's really almost impossible to manage. Although I think Reince overall did a much better job than he's gotten credit for. But I think in the case of General Kelly, he had an understanding with President Trump going in that he was going to be a serious person and that he was going to have real authority, and I think that's what will happen.

Listen to the full interview below: