FOX News Channel’s (FNC) Martha MacCallum has re-signed a long-term contract with the network, announced Suzanne Scott, president of programming for FNC. MacCallum will remain as anchor of FNC’s The Story with Martha MacCallum (weeknights at 7PM/ET) and will continue her contributions to FNC’s top-rated election coverage.

In making the announcement, Scott said, “Over the past 12 years, Martha has built a relationship with our viewers based on her engaging personality and trustworthiness. She has proven herself to be an essential component of the network’s programming.”

MacCallum added, “I’m extremely proud of what we have built here at FOX News and the relationship we have with our loyal viewers. What we started over the course of The First 100 Days, and now continue with The Story each night, kicks off the best primetime lineup in news. I am proud to be part of our great political and news coverage and look forward to the future of FOX News.”

MacCallum currently anchors The Story with Martha MacCallum where she focuses on the stories most important to Americans with insight from top newsmakers and analysts every weeknight at 7PM/ET. Since the program’s launch on May 1st, the 7PM/ET hour is up 13% in total viewers (2,043,000 viewers) and 39% in A25-54 (398,000 viewers) versus the same time period in 2016. Previously, beginning when President Donald Trump took office, MacCallum anchored The First 100 Days (weekdays at 7PM/ET) which chronicled the start of the new administration and continued until President Trump’s 100th day in office. For the first quarter of 2017, The First 100 Days delivered the most-watched quarter in network history for the 7PM/ET hour.

Prior to anchoring The First 100 Days, she served as co-anchor of America’s Newsroom since 2010, which routinely outpaced CNN and MSNBC combined during its timeslot, according to Nielsen Media Research. In this role, MacCallum reported extensively on breaking news stories and interviewed key newsmakers and political heavyweights, including: President Donald Trump, General David Petraeus, then-Republican presidential candidates Senator John McCain and Gov. Mitt Romney, New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, former chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee Debbie Wasserman Schultz, then-White House press secretary Josh Earnest and former First Lady Laura Bush.

Additionally, MacCallum has played a pivotal role during FNC’s presidential election coverage since 2004 as the lead reporter on exit poll data and key voting trends on primary nights. Throughout the most recent election season, MacCallum co-moderated two Republican presidential primary debates alongside Bill Hemmer in Des Moines, Iowa and Cleveland, Ohio, with the latter delivering 6.1 million total viewers and 1.2 million viewers in the 25-54 key demo. She also contributed to the network’s election night coverage during America’s Election Headquarters on November 8th, 2016, which garnered FNC its highest-rated election night in history, averaging nearly 13 million viewers and 5 million in the key 25-54 demo from 8PM – 3AM/ET.

Prior to joining FNC in 2004, MacCallum held a variety of positions at NBC from 1997 to 2003. She was co-anchor of CNBC’s Morning Call with Martha MacCallum and Ted David and was the anchor of CNBC’s Checkpoint, an evening news program focusing on the Afghanistan and Iraq wars. A frequent contributor to MSNBC’s The News with Brian Williams, NBC’s Today, NBC affiliates and CNBC World, she also created the series Inside the Business for Business Center. In 1997 and 2003, MacCallum was a recipient of the American Women in Radio and Television award for her reporting. A graduate of St. Lawrence University, she also studied at the Circle in the Square Theater School in New York.

FOX News Channel (FNC) is a 24-hour all-encompassing news service dedicated to delivering breaking news as well as political and business news. A top five cable network, FNC has been the most-watched news channel in the country for more than 15 years and according to a Suffolk University/USA Today poll, is the most trusted television news source in the country. Owned by 21st Century Fox, FNC is available in 90 million homes and dominates the cable news landscape, routinely notching the top ten programs in the genre.

###

FOX News Media Contact :

Jessica Jensen/212.301.3531