NEW YORK – JUNE 05, 2017 — FOX News Channel’s (FNC) Eric Bolling has re-signed a long-term contract with the network, announced Suzanne Scott, president of programming for FNC. Bolling will remain as co-host of The FOX News Specialists (weekdays at 5PM/ET) and host of Cashin’ In (Saturdays/11:30AM–12PM/ET). He will also continue to host FNC’s annual New Year’s Eve special, All-American New Year.

In making the announcement, Scott said, “Eric has cultivated a strong fan base and has become a staple to the FOX News brand. His insight is valued and we are pleased to have him at the network for many more years to come.”

Bolling added, “Over the past decade I have proudly made FOX News Channel my broadcasting home. I am thrilled that I will continue in my role at FNC and very much look forward to developing many more successful programs for our loyal and patriotic viewership!”

As co-host of The FOX News Specialists (5-6 PM/ET) Bolling, alongside Katherine Timpf and Eboni K. Williams, discusses the top stories driving the news headlines of the day with two guest experts known as the “specialists,” who provide unique analysis on the stories trending in America. Since the program’s launch on May 1st, the program has averaged 1.9 million viewers and 341,000 in the 25-54 demographic, according to Nielsen Media Research. Additionally, The FOX News Specialists is up 18% with Adults 25-54 and remains in the top 10 rated cable news programs overall, ranked eighth ahead of MSNBC’s primetime program All In with Chris Hayes and CNN’s Anderson Cooper 360.

In addition to his role as co-host of The FOX News Specialists, Bolling also hosts Cashin’ In (Saturdays, 11:30AM – 12PM/ET), where he takes an in-depth look at all aspects of practical personal money management, including 401K plan investing, real estate investment and college tuition savings. A contributor to FNC and FOX Business Network (FBN), Bolling served as an original co-host of The Five, and helped launch the popular ensemble roundtable program in 2011. Additionally, he co-hosted FNC’s New Year’s Eve special, All-American New Year in both 2015 and 2016, and hosted multiple programs on FBN including Follow the Money and Happy Hour as well as FoxNews.com’s Strategy Room. Prior to joining FBN in 2008, Bolling helped launched CNBC’s Fast Money as an original panelist.

Before embarking on his career in television, Bolling was an independent trader based out of the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) specializing in crude oil, gold and agricultural commodities. He also served on the NYMEX’s Board of Directors for five years, and subsequently acted as a strategic adviser there. Bolling was named the Maybach Man of the Year in 2007 and one of Trader Monthly‘s Top Traders in 2007 and 2008. A successful author, his first book “Wake Up America” became an instant New York Times best seller.

A graduate of Rollins College in Winter Park, Florida, Bolling was awarded a fellowship to Duke University’s School of Public Policy. He was drafted in the 22nd round of the 1984 Major League Baseball Draft by the Pittsburgh Pirates and was assigned to their affiliate in the rookie-level Gulf Coast League.

FOX News Channel (FNC) is a 24-hour all-encompassing news service dedicated to delivering breaking news as well as political and business news. A top five cable network, FNC has been the most-watched news channel in the country for more than 15 years and according to a Suffolk University/USA Today poll, is the most trusted television news source in the country. Owned by 21st Century Fox, FNC is available in 90 million homes and dominates the cable news landscape, routinely notching the top ten programs in the genre.

###

FOX News Media Contact :

Jaclyn Giuliano/212.301.3436