A Muslim organization is calling for the firing of McDonald’s employees in Decatur, Ala., after a Muslim family claimed to have found pieces of bacon hidden in their McChicken sandwiches.

"The bacon was either on top of the chicken or hidden underneath within the sandwich so (the consumer) couldn’t tell if it was there or not,” said Khuala Hadeed, the head of the Alabama’s Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), in a statement to the Decatur Daily.

Hadeed is also calling the incident “an intentional act of religious and ethnic bigotry,” as Islam forbids its followers from eating pork, reports AL.com.

MCDONALD'S BRINGS BACK OBSCURE SAUCE IN RESPONSE TO A CARTOON

According to Hadeed, the family was visiting from New York when they stopped by McDonald’s for a bite to eat. They ordered 14 sandwiches for the group, but soon took notice of a “smoky” taste they didn’t recognize. Upon inspecting the sandwiches, they found small pieces of bacon inside each sandwich.

"It doesn't sound like a mistake, especially on 14 sandwiches," said Hadeed. Hadeed’s group, the CAIR, also posted footage of the family’s find to YouTube.

A representative of the Decatur McDonald’s has since denied any wrongdoing by his employees, though he has yet to address if he believes the family is falsifying their story, or if the bacon was merely a mistake.

“We want to assure our customers that this was not an intentional act by our employees,” said the representative in a statement obtained by Fox News. “We value every customer and strive to ensure all orders are accurately prepared and served.

"We are looking into the matter to understand what happened."

FOLLOW US ON FACEBOOK FOR MORE FOX LIFESTYLE NEWS

Hadeed, however, doesn't but that the bacon wasn't intentionally placed on the sandwiches.

“[The family eats] McChicken all the time at McDonald's,” she told AL.com. “They knew what they ordered — they know what's in the sandwich.”

A representative for McDonald’s was not immediately available for comment.